June 14- 2002

Problems with suradonfk0

1) Why residuals are so large after applying weights.

Sparseness doesn't seem to help for the Stolt operator because the result of
migration is not sparse. Hence, although sparseness is achieved, the prediction
 is seriously affected. If enough iterations are applied the prediction 
improves slowly, but in general we can not iterate much with this operator as
 explained below.

In summary, sparseness is not useful here, since the CG is not converging well
 then the model does not have the chance to recover after weighting.

2) CG does not converge well.
 
The strong events in the top are severely aliased, then the stolt operator 
takes these under sampled event and produces a sort of scatter points rather
 than a simple point. Solution? I try weights both in model and data and 
they do  not seem to help. I am lost here. 

The problem is that the residuals show very strange artifacts after a few 
iterations, then the model calculated from these residuals became highly 
distorted  as well. Model weights in the areas of the model where these 
artifacts grow are helpful only in the first iterations. 

Conclusion:

For Stolt do not use sparseness (use iter_end=1) and use the automatic 
stopping criterion that if the residuals increase stop itercg.

Next work:

Do the same analysis for Kirchhoff. The plotting system used to debug is 
really useful, it is worthy to spend the extra time required to set it.

Visualization of data weights, model, predictions and residuals is making a 
huge difference. Function xplotgather is doing a good job in simplifying 
the plotting instructions. 

June 17

1)
Matlab program for 1d wavelet filtering.
Done: 3 files in directory wav1dfilter.
Comments: no further plans.

2) suradontx
The adjoint seems to be a bad approximations, much worse than the adjoin for 
normal RT. After a few iterations results became better but in general there
are very strong artifacts.

But even after several iterations suradontx is not fitting the data correctly
In comparison Stolt gives a very good fit even after the first iteration.

Either there is a mistake in suradontx (for example the adjoint has very 
low amplitude) or there is a fundamental difference between Kirchhoff  and
Stolt. Actually it is  important to understand how these two approaches differ.
Is it Kirchhoff fundamentally weaker than Stolt?


3) There is something very peculiar about suradonfk0.cpp
 Note that it is imposible to use fputtr with the data before and 
after stretching due to the difference in the ns value.
 However, it works fine when used in two different functions inside the code.
Look that xplotgather inside radonfk_wtcgls is plotting with no problems.
I try to repeat the trick with a wrapping function for xplotgather
(plot_after_stretching) but it did not work!


4) I created a script to compare results between suradonfk and suradontx.

Xplotsuradonfk_tx_ken
Xcopy_fk_tx
 
5) Future: 
   there must be a mistake in suradontx. Find it
   it must be possible to use hyperbolic windows.
   The difference between stolt and Kirchhoff once more make think of
   how great would be a hyperbolic RT in fk!!

June 24- 

Since sparseness is not really required for coherent noise separation,
then it is not necessary the transfomation to time. This  means that 
the Radon transform with full coverage of velocities AND apexes is possible!!

However, different velocities in Stolt is really expensive because of the 
time stretching. Is it a way to simplify this?

Well, if several velocities are applied it seems that it is not really
necessary to apply stretching, because different events will be centered
at different velocities like in RT.











